the new body structure sits on a new
platform known as the GS platform this
platform is the same as the Outlander
under the hood is a 2 liter 4-cylinder
dohc MIVEC engine designated the 4 b11
it's an all aluminum alloy engine with a
timing chain instead of a belt the
emission control system meets the sul
evey regulations and is certified as a
partial zero emissions vehicle or PZEV
for California models a new type of
automatic transaxle is used in all
models of the Lancer a CVT are
continuously variable transmission is a
jet code transmission and is designated
the f1 CJA
the GTS model also includes sport tronic
sync winchell shifting along with paddle
shifters an optional manual 5-speed
transaxle is also available for all
models it's an ace in AI transmission
designated as the f5m B B the Lancer now
comes equipped with the same TPMS system
as did the Outlander it too is
manufactured by Siemens and uses a v60
trigger tool to activate the
transmitters at the ports also remember
the rke immobilizer and the TPMS
functions are combined in the WCM or
wireless control module this again is
much the same as the Outlander kos is
used in the GTS model as a package
option and comes in the Navi and tech
package as you look at the Lancer
underneath the smooth lines and sleek
style is a super high tensile strength
steel body construction advanced airbags
with the addition of a new airbag on the
driver side is now used in the Lancer
you also can find side curtain airbags
but there's no rollover function in
these airbags vehicle communication is
provided in part by a Lyn bus instead of
the old SWS also an improved can bus for
higher reliability is also developed for
the Lancer the e-tax ECU remains the
gateway ECU between the Lin
can be and can see bus much like the
Outlander variant coding such as local
coding global coding or option coding
has been added to the Lancer you perform
these tasks much the same way that you
were able to in the Outlander this
capability is available for all models
the ES and GTS models may as an option
come equipped with a Rockford Fosgate
premium sound system this includes a
huge 650 watt amp with am/fm tuner 6 CD
changer mp3 and WMA playback function 9
speakers for mid-range 4 tweeters and a
subwoofer also sirius satellite radio
may be included the GTS models may
include an a/v or tech package that
consists of kos a 30 gig hard drive with
map and GPS navigation it's all
integrated with a 7.5 inch wide LCD
screen standard in the GTS and optional
on the ES is a Bluetooth wireless
communication system for cellular phone
connections and here again it's the same
as the Outlander and that in a nutshell
are all of the main features of the
Lancer for 2008